README.md, before:

# AzusaOS - apkg

Work in progress

# Structure

* /pkg/ directories each containing a database (main, etc)
 * /pkg/main/... is a non-listable directory but lookups will return a symlink to a given package's full name, or a directory of the actual package contents

For example:

	$ readlink ~/pkg/main/libs.zlib
	libs.zlib.1.2.11.linux.amd64
	$ ls ~/pkg/main/libs.zlib/ -la
	total 4
	drwxr-xr-x 3 root root    100 Apr 14 01:44 .
	dr--r--r-- 1 root root   4096 Jan  1  1970 ..
	-rw-r--r-- 0 root root 146362 Apr 14 01:44 libz.a
	lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     14 Apr 14 01:44 libz.so -> libz.so.1.2.11
	lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     14 Apr 14 01:44 libz.so.1 -> libz.so.1.2.11
	-rwxr-xr-x 0 root root 117632 Apr 14 01:44 libz.so.1.2.11
	drwxr-xr-x 2 root root     30 Apr 14 01:44 pkgconfig

# Package names

Each package name is made of sections separated by dots. Typically it would be vendor.package.major.minor.revision.patch

Additional sections can be added, and less-specific names will always point to the most recent package with a given prefix.

For example, package foobar v1.2.3 released as part of the core will be called core.foobar.1.2.3, however core.foobar will also work.

# Installing

	curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TrisTech/make-go/master/get.sh | /bin/sh -s apkg

Note: this is EXPERIMENTAL. A lot of stuff is missing. Do not use unless you know what you are doing.

# Database

Encoding is big endian unless specified.

## Master DB

Master DB: one file + signature.

* Header
* ID & basic pkg info for each package (inode range, etc)
* Signature

Header:

* Magic "APDB"
* File Format Version (0x00000001)
* Flags int64 (beta, etc)
* Creation date/time
* OS (linux, darwin, windows, etc)
* Architecture (amd64, i386, etc)
* Download URL prefix (should contain architecture?)
* Location in file of indices, length, all int32 (file should never reach 4GB)
* ... more?

Basic pkg info:

* 0x00 (uint8)
* ID (16 bytes)
* File header signature (file header contains checksum of rest of file)
* Size

## Data File

Each data file contains a header, JSON-encoded metadata, a hash data descriptor, and data blocks

* 0 Magic "APKG"
* 4 File Format Version (0x00000001)
* 8 Flags int64
* 16 Creation date/time int64 + int64 (unix + nano)
* 32 MetaData offset int32
* 36 MetaData length int32
* 40 MetaData hash (sha256)
* 72 Hash descriptor offset int32
* 76 Hash descriptor length int32
* 80 Hash descriptor hash (sha256)
* 112 Signature offset uint32
* 116 Data offset uint32
* 120 Data block size
* 124 end of header

Commit message:

add collation rule for versions

README.md, after:

# AzusaOS - apkg

Work in progress

# Structure

* /pkg/ directories each containing a database (main, etc)
 * /pkg/main/... is a non-listable directory but lookups will return a symlink to a given package's full name, or a directory of the actual package contents

For example:

	$ readlink ~/pkg/main/libs.zlib
	libs.zlib.1.2.11.linux.amd64
	$ ls ~/pkg/main/libs.zlib/ -la
	total 4
	drwxr-xr-x 3 root root    100 Apr 14 01:44 .
	dr--r--r-- 1 root root   4096 Jan  1  1970 ..
	-rw-r--r-- 0 root root 146362 Apr 14 01:44 libz.a
	lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     14 Apr 14 01:44 libz.so -> libz.so.1.2.11
	lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     14 Apr 14 01:44 libz.so.1 -> libz.so.1.2.11
	-rwxr-xr-x 0 root root 117632 Apr 14 01:44 libz.so.1.2.11
	drwxr-xr-x 2 root root     30 Apr 14 01:44 pkgconfig

# Package names

Each package name is made of sections separated by dots. Typically it would be vendor.package.major.minor.revision.patch

Additional sections can be added, and less-specific names will always point to the most recent package with a given prefix.

For example, package foobar v1.2.3 released as part of the core will be called core.foobar.1.2.3, however core.foobar will also work.

## Collation

In order for package names to be appropriately sorted, the following collation rules are applied when sorting keys are generated:

* Series of digits are prefixed with a single byte which value is how many digits are following minus 1. For example "1" becomes "<00>1" and 42 becomes "<01>42", this ensures sorting for version numbers.

# Installing

	curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TrisTech/make-go/master/get.sh | /bin/sh -s apkg

Note: this is EXPERIMENTAL. A lot of stuff is missing. Do not use unless you know what you are doing.

# Database

Encoding is big endian unless specified.

## Master DB

Master DB: one file + signature.

* Header
* ID & basic pkg info for each package (inode range, etc)
* Signature

Header:

* Magic "APDB"
* File Format Version (0x00000001)
* Flags int64 (beta, etc)
* Creation date/time
* OS (linux, darwin, windows, etc)
* Architecture (amd64, i386, etc)
* Download URL prefix (should contain architecture?)
* Location in file of indices, length, all int32 (file should never reach 4GB)
* ... more?

Basic pkg info:

* 0x00 (uint8)
* ID (16 bytes)
* File header signature (file header contains checksum of rest of file)
* Size

## Data File

Each data file contains a header, JSON-encoded metadata, a hash data descriptor, and data blocks

* 0 Magic "APKG"
* 4 File Format Version (0x00000001)
* 8 Flags int64
* 16 Creation date/time int64 + int64 (unix + nano)
* 32 MetaData offset int32
* 36 MetaData length int32
* 40 MetaData hash (sha256)
* 72 Hash descriptor offset int32
* 76 Hash descriptor length int32
* 80 Hash descriptor hash (sha256)
* 112 Signature offset uint32
* 116 Data offset uint32
* 120 Data block size
* 124 end of header
